---
layout: post
title: The Unity 3D UI essentials launch competition - Terms and Conditions
date: '2015-02-02 16:26:35'
---

COMPETITIONS: STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 

- Competition details form part of these terms and conditions.
- The competition is open worldwide (see Packt’s shipping conditions – [https://www.packtpub.com/books/info/packt/ordering](https://www.packtpub.com/books/info/packt/ordering))
- Shippable items are subject to Packt’s standard shipping terms and conditions.  Free delivery is available to most destinations, please check [Packt’s site](https://www.packtpub.com/books/info/packt/ordering "Packt shipping details") for more details on shipping.
- You are NOT a resident of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, or Syria; U.S. export regulations prohibit the export of goods and services to Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria. Therefore residents of these countries/regions are not eligible to participate.
- Entry is open to entrants of all ages, no restrictions (except a love of Unity).
- Use of a false name or address will result in disqualification.
- Entries that are incomplete, illegible, indecipherable, or abusive will not be valid and deemed void.
- All entries must be made directly by the person entering the competition.
- Entries made online using methods generated by a script, macro or the use of automated devices will be void.
- No responsibility can be accepted for entries lost, damaged or delayed in the post, or due to computer error in transit.
- The prizes are as stated, are not transferable to another individual and no cash or other alternatives will be offered.
- Prizes are subject to availability and the prize suppliers’ terms and conditions.
- The promoters reserve the right to amend or alter the terms of competitions at any time and reject entries from entrants not entering into the spirit of the competition.
- In the event of a prize being unavailable, the promoter reserves the right to offer an alternative prize of equal or greater value.
- Unless stated otherwise the winner(s) will be drawn at random from all valid entries received by the closing date stated within the promotional material.
- Reasonable efforts will be made to contact the winner(s). If the winner(s) cannot be contacted, or are unable to comply with these terms and conditions, the Promoter reserves the right to offer the prize to the next eligible entrant drawn at random, or in the event that the promotion is being judged the Promoter reserves the right to offer the prize to the runner(s)-up selected by the same judges.
- Confirmation of the prize will be made in email to the winner(s), so ensure you use an account with a valid email.
- Failure to respond and/or provide an address for delivery, or failure to meet the eligibility requirements may result in forfeiture of the prize.
- Where applicable, the decision of the judges is final based on the criteria set out in the promotion and no correspondence will be entered into over this decision.
- Competitions may be modified or withdrawn at any time.
- The provider of the prize is specified within the promotional material.
- The Promoter is Simon Jackson of ZenithMoon studios, on behalf of Packt Publishing and other competition contributors.
- The promoter does not endorse any Prize supplied by a third party nor does it endorse the third party supplier.
- In the event of a discrepancy between these standard terms and conditions and the details in the promotional material (or any other terms and conditions provided/referred to at the time of entry), the details of the promotional material (and any other terms and conditions provided/referred to at the time of entry) shall prevail.
- A list of winners will be available by using the Contact page on the darkgenesis.zenithmoon.com blog no earlier than six weeks, unless otherwise stated, after the close of the competition. Only the avatar name and county (if available) of the winners will be disclosed.
- Entry implies acceptance of these terms and conditions as final and binding.  Entries which are not in accordance with the terms and conditions will be disqualified.

 

